same pad but with additions from the Nov11 meeting

informal meeting 14.05.2020 - 20:00

Present: 
    
Points:
    emails:
        https://postur.piratar.is/zimbra/?zinitmode=http - to access
        framkvaemdastjori@piratar.is - for restting passwords
        Hansjonsson@piratar.is
        oktavía@piratar.is
        olga@piratar.is
        wiktoria@piratar.is
        Take turns - send info on folx when info or task is related to expertise.
        SocMed
        * Olga and Wiktoria - Hans also
        * GitHub: Okta updates GitHub
        * spjall.piratar.is: add board
        * Webpage area: TBD
        
    Updates: Signal used as updating place
    Roles (responsibilities) - titles
    suggestion: make a task list and distribute
Suggestion: cut the titles for now - pönk later
*if* we register officially we need a chairperson who *owns* the entity
    Press Release (IS/EN)
    face combination tool? Can we add the 5 of us together plz?
    
    frequency of meetings
    Online preferred!
    * more in the beginning for organising
    * use start of summer to do the thing

    * Then every .... 
     * quarter? (many a bit more frewucnt)
* monthly? shorter meetings
 - See how it evolves
    
    general activities
    * New constitution
    * Strengthening legal frameworks for Queer inclusion
    * Strong stance on Queer rights in foreign policies
    * grunnstefna video
    * magazine 19.june
    * panel - language
    
    
language - we are ENGLISH speaking by default. If you need other languages - be in touch! and we will assist with Icelandic, Polish or others    

Next meeting: 
    Friday 22nd at 15:30!!
meeting topic:
    * SocMed presence - where and what? and whhyyy? currently there are 8 groups and 1 page...
    * format of félag
    * language - we are ENGLISH speaking in our
    

Fréttatilkynning/ vefpóstur
Saturday 14th of May 2020 
On Saturday past The Feminist Association of the Icelandic Pirate Party had their General Assembly. 
The GA was tasked with electing a new board - and so they did! Hans Jónsson, Wiktoria Joanna Ginter, Jóhann Hjörtur Stefánsson Bruhn, Olga Margrét Krístínardóttir Cilia og Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir were elected to the board of 20/21 and made their first decision to remain titleless in their roles as boardmembers.
The assembly, which was held online, had great talks from Ugla Stefanía Kristjönudóttir Jónsdóttir and Sigrún Bragadóttir. 
Ugla took on the difficult topic of priviledge feminism and the future of radical feminism in Iceland, while Sigrún took us through the history of Craftivism and the political history pockets! Tips and ticks on crafting your own pockets - free from patriarchical norms -  was a were given and received with applause!
We look forward to the the next year!
---
Laugardaginn 14. maí kaus feministafélag pírata í nýjastjórn á óvenjulegum aðalfundi félagsins en var hann einungis á netinu og með frábær erindi frá Uglu Stefaníu

Hi everyone!
It was lovely to see you briefly on the online meeting the other day (my phone started lagging so badly I had to quit earlier). I am very happy we are getting more active and I just would like to mention that I love seeing that the movement transforms so much and is more now about giving the platform and voice to anyone, who is undermined and oppressed. It’s finally taking a form of what it should have been from the beginning: patriarchy vs EVERYONE and EVERYTHING else.
I’ve lived here my entire adult life (13 years), had my child, learned the language, learned the history, visited all corners of the country like 20 times, took active part in the society on many levels (political, cultural, professional, you name it) and still - the moment I start criticising authorities, one of the first things I hear is “why don’t you just go back to your country”. Being a woman is not helping either. I’ve done my part on consta-battle uphill when men get everything handed in for them with little to no effort. This is very painful especially in professional fields - when you know you are on a lost position, no matter if you have far better skills, education and experience - you’re still a foreign woman and your connections are limited.
This will be my main point in fight against patriarchy and prejudice and the fake facade of Icelandic friendliness towards foreigners. Especially females.
I’m looking forward working with ya’ll. I don’t mind being the wild card in discussions online or in media and telling things as they are, because as much as I understand the reasoning behind censorship for not losing political support, I think that strategy never gets anything done.
Standing by never gets anything done.
Looking forward next meeting and discussions about agendas!
---+
22/5-2020 -
*official language of FemPír is English - approved unanimously
* format of félag
* register at RSK - get a kennitala - sub-entity
 - independent fundraising and decision-making
- for fundraising independently we would need the kennitala
- can get our own bank account
* félag - w/o kennitala, félag within Píratar, but with admin etc. at the main entity
* can Píratar main set up a sub-account for FemPír? With an umboð? (Wiktoria will email framkvaemdastjori@piratar.is)
- not same level of independence in a fiscal sense
* change to an issue-specific subgroup
-less formality - not as structured, no need for many of the formalities
Unanimously voted in favour of keeping the accs. a Félag with no kennitala.
* Timarítið 19. júní
1/1 pager advertisement:
    * need to fundraise: 
        * ask main assc.
* do a run on SocMed in our groups?

TEXT for SocMed (Olga takes the crack on this one)
Do you want to help us get started with a bang?! FemPír is looking for donations to further our cause for rights for all - now!
The donations would go to further our activities - pay for ads and possible events (covid allowing!) 
Our first goal is 120 000.- which would cover the cost of publishing a text in the journal 19. júní, which is a magazine published yearly by the The Icelandic Women’s Rights Association in Iceland. FemPír wants to show support to sex worker's autonomy and agency by publishing the text. 
So can you help us making it a reality? Any donation will help! You can either donate to xxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx and/or share this status.

Thanks!  

Kennitala: 461212-0690
Reikningsnúmer: 1161-26-4612

TEXT for tímaritið (Hans will take the first crack at it)
(legislation should always strengthen the rights, protection from the police, rely on access to health care on own terms)
Feminist Pirates support sex workers in their fight for:
    * the right to..autonomy
    * the access to...healthcare and safety and justice on their own terms
    * freedom from abuse
    
    

Social media Presence
* what is target group: 20-40 non-cis gender, hetro men (aka erryone else...), Reykjavík - then spread, 
    * on instagram largely, connecting to FB - a lot of folx in Iceland on FB.
    * Twitter seperate - later time problem :) 
* timing - frequency - content - demographics - purpose
https://www.facebook.com/groups/772782279398673/
The group: https://www.facebook.com/groups/2023970294484241/
the Page: https://www.facebook.com/FemPir/
the womyn and enbyies: https://www.facebook.com/groups/1621282808106049/
  * Try and ecourage discussion to take place primarilly of FB, using spjall.piratar.is, jitsi, offline meetups, etc. 
  * FB - use the page as an official outlet, and not other FB groups or locations. (FB is not a good environment to engage people)

meeting topic:
    * SocMed presence - where and what? and whhyyy? currently there are 8 groups and 1 page...
    * format of félag
    * language - we are ENGLISH speaking in our
    * Timaritið 19.june